---
title: StaSh
layout: post
permalink: /blog/stash.html
author: Gerzer
---
Welcome to the first ever Pythonista Tools blog project feature! Every feature will be of an open-source Pythonista-made project that has been posted to Pythonista Tools. It seemed only logical to start off with the fantastic Bash-like shell for Pythonista, [StaSh](https://github.com/ywangd/stash) by GitHub user [ywangd](https://github.com/ywangd). Pythonista community veterans will remember when ywangd first introduced StaSh on the [Pythonista Forums](http://omz-forums.appspot.com/pythonista), and some may even be longtime members enough to recall the release of [Shellista](http://omz-forums.appspot.com/pythonista/post/5302343285342208) by Pythonista Forums user [pudquick](http://omz-forums.appspot.com/user/pudquick).  
In fact, StaSh was born out of Shellista at first. ywangd was trying to make improvements to Shellista, but found it easier to completely rebuild their own version from scratch versus making the necessary back-end changes to the original Shellista code. Because of the freedom that comes with rebuilding something from scratch, ywangd was able to add amazing new features, such as a UI using the `ui` module, native git integration, a more modular system for adding new commands, and better integration with the Pythonista app itself, to name a few.  
Of course, everything StaSh does can be achieved in Python without going through the StaSh UI, but for those of us who are familiar with Bash on, say, OS X or Linux, quick access to a shell on iOS is great. Since Bash, and therefore StaSh, are made to make working with files and directories extremely easy in code, it can be a lot faster and easier to fire up StaSh than to use the Python `os` module, which is missing a lot of features that need to be programmed manually, in Pythonista's interactive prompt.  
All in all, StaSh by ywangd is an amazing, open-source tool for Pythonista users who miss easy access to Bash on desktop and laptop computers, and is well-deserving of being the first featured project on the Pythonista Tools blog. Download and enjoy!